# Optimizing-Logistic-Regression-Model-for-Heart-Disease-Prediction-with-Machine-Learning
Abstract— Nowadays, heart disease is a serious medical issue, and diagnosis is crucial to providing the proper treatment to the patient. Hence, machine learning (ML)-based early diagnosis of heart disease can reduce time and misdiagnosis. In this paper, we examine the various machine learning models for detecting heart diseases early and propose a method of optimized logistic regression (OLR) to make predictions more accurate. The proposed model uses GridSearchCV and five-fold crossvalidation to determine the best parameter for the logistic regression (LR) classifier and tune the hyperparameter. For evaluations, we conducted extensive experiments and compared the proposed method with different machine learning methods including Logistic Regression (LR), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest (RF), AdaBoost (AB), and Naive Bayes(NB). The results confirmed that the proposed method improved overall performance with an accuracy of 90.74% and area under the curve (AUC) of 0.95.

Keywords— heart disease prediction, machine learning, optimized logistic regression, support vector machine, random forest, adaboost, and naive bayes.

Citation— [MD. Shameem Ahammed](https://sites.google.com/view/shameem3e), Md. Mahbubur Rahman, Md. Borhan Uddin, Zinia Jahan, Md. Shake Farid Uddin and Sabnam Mushtari “Optimizing Logistic Regression Model for Heart Disease Prediction with Machine Learning,” 2024 Seventh International Conference on Vocational Education and Electrical Engineering (ICVEE), Malang, Indonesia, 2024, pp. 216-221. [https://doi.org/10.1109/ICVEE63912.2024.10823688](https://doi.org/10.1109/ICVEE63912.2024.10823688)
